## !intro Order

An order is a customer's request to purchase one or more products from a shop. You can create, retrieve, update, and delete orders using the Order resource.

- When you create an order through the API, no payment information is collected, and no transaction is performed.
- After an order is created, you can change only a few of its attributes using the API. You can't change the items or the quantities in an order using the REST API, but you can change them using the [GraphQL Admin API](https://shopify.dev/apps/fulfillment/order-management-apps/order-editing).
- You can add [metafields](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/admin-rest/current/resources/metafield) to the Order resource.
- You can allow merchants to create orders manually by using the [DraftOrder resource](https://shopify.dev/docs/api/admin-rest/current/resources/draftorder).

## !resource The Order resource

```json ! The Order resource
!from ./order.json
```

### !!properties app_id

!type integer
!readonly

The ID of the app that created the order.

### !!properties billing_address

!type CustomerAddress

The mailing address associated with the payment method. This address is an optional field that won't be available on orders that do not require a payment method. It has the following properties:

#### !subproperties

- **address1**: The street address of the billing address.
- **address2**: An optional additional field for the street address of the billing address.
- **city**: The city, town, or village of the billing address.
- **company**: The company of the person associated with the billing address.
- **country**: The name of the country of the billing address.

### !!properties browser_ip

!type string IP
!readonly

The IP address of the browser used by the customer when they placed the order. Both IPv4 and IPv6 are supported.

### !!properties buyer_accepts_marketing

!type boolean

Whether the customer agreed to receive email updates from the shop.

### !!properties cancel_reason

!type string

The reason why the order was canceled. Valid values:

#### !subproperties

- **customer**: The customer canceled the order.
- **fraud**: The order was fraudulent.
- **inventory**: Items in the order were not in inventory.
- **declined**: The payment was declined.
- **other**: A reason not in this list.

### !!properties cancelled_at

!type string ISO 8601
!readonly

The date and time when the order was canceled. Returns `null` if the order isn't canceled.

### !!hidden created_at

!type string ISO 8601
!readonly

The autogenerated date and time (ISO 8601 format) when the order was created in Shopify. The value for this property cannot be changed.

### !!hidden currency

!type string ISO 4217
!readonly

The three-letter code (ISO 4217 format) for the currency used for the payment.

### !!hidden gateway

!type string
!deprecated

The payment gateway used for the order.

## !!endpoints Create an order

!method POST
!path /admin/api/2024-01/orders.json

Creates an order.

By default, product inventory is not claimed when creating an order.

There are additional optional parameters that can be specified in the body of the request when creating an order:

- **inventory_behaviour**: The behaviour to use when updating inventory. (default: `bypass`)
  - **bypass**: Do not claim inventory.
  - **decrement_ignoring_policy**: Ignore the product's inventory policy and claim inventory.
  - **decrement_obeying_policy**: Follow the product's inventory policy and claim inventory, if possible.
- **send_receipt**: Whether to send an order confirmation to the customer. (default: \`false\`)

```bash !!request cURL
curl -X GET "https://your-development-store.myshopify.com/admin/api/2024-01/orders/count.json?status=any" \
-H "X-Shopify-Access-Token: {access_token}"
```

```js !!request Node.js
// Session is built by the OAuth process
await shopify.rest.Order.count({
  session: session,
  status: "any",
})
```

```json !response Response
HTTP/1.1 201 Created
{
  "order": {
    "id": 450789469,
    "email": ""
  }
}
```

### !!parameters api_version

!type string
!required

### !!examples Create a comprehensive order

### !!examples Create a partially paid order

### !!examples Create a simple order and fulfill it

### !!examples Create an order and apply a discount

## !!endpoints Cancel an order

!method POST
!path /admin/api/2024-01/orders/450789469/cancel.json

Cancels an order. Orders that are paid and have fulfillments can't be canceled.

```bash !!request cURL
curl -X GET "https://your-development-store.myshopify.com/admin/api/2024-01/orders/count.json?status=any" \
-H "X-Shopify-Access-Token: {access_token}"
```

```js !!request Node.js
// Session is built by the OAuth process
await shopify.rest.Order.count({
  session: session,
  status: "any",
})
```

```json !response Response
{
  "order": {
    "id": 450789469,
    "email": ""
  }
}
```

### !!parameters api_version

!type string
!required

### !!parameters order_id

!type string
!required

### !!parameters amount

!type string

The amount to refund. If set, Shopify attempts to refund the specified amount, depending on its status. Shopify refunds through a manual gateway in cases where the original transaction was not made in Shopify. Refunds through a manual gateway are recorded as a refund on Shopify, but the customer is not refunded.

### !!parameters email

!type boolean
!default false

Whether to send an email to the customer notifying them of the cancellation.

### !!examples Cancel an order

### !!examples Cancel an order using the amount property

### !!examples Cancel an order using the refund property

## !!endpoints Retrieve a list of orders

!method GET
!path /admin/api/2024-01/orders.json?status=any

Retrieves a list of orders that meet the specified criteria. **Usage notes:**  
This endpoint implements pagination by using links that are provided in the response header. To learn more, see [Make paginated requests to the REST Admin API](https://shopify.dev/api/usage/pagination-rest).

```bash !!request cURL
curl -X GET "https://your-development-store.myshopify.com/admin/api/2024-01/orders/count.json?status=any" \
-H "X-Shopify-Access-Token: {access_token}"
```

```js !!request Node.js
// Session is built by the OAuth process
await shopify.rest.Order.count({
  session: session,
  status: "any",
})
```

```json !response Response
{
  "order": {
    "id": 450789469,
    "email": ""
  }
}
```

### !!parameters api_version

!type string
!required

### !!parameters attribution_app_id

!type string

Show orders attributed to a certain app, specified by the app's ID.

### !!parameters financial_status

!type string
!default any

Filter orders by their financial status.

#### !subproperties

- **authorized**: Show only authorized orders
- **pending**: Show only pending orders
- **paid**: Show only paid orders
- **partially_paid**: Show only partially paid orders
- **refunded**: Show only refunded orders
- **voided**: Show only voided orders
- **partially_refunded**: Show only partially refunded orders
- **any**: Show orders of any financial status.
- **unpaid**: Show authorized and partially paid orders.

### !!parameters since_id

!type integer ISO 8601

Show orders after the specified ID.

### !!examples Retrieve all orders

### !!examples Retrieve all orders with certain properties

### !!examples Retrieve specific orders

## !!endpoints Update an order

!method PUT
!path /admin/api/2024-01/orders/450789469.json

This operation allows for updating properties of an order including \`buyer_accepts_marketing\`, \`email\`, \`phone\`, \`note\`, \`tags\`, \`metafields\` and \`shipping_address_attributes\`. It is not for editing the items of an order.

```bash !!request cURL
curl -X GET "https://your-development-store.myshopify.com/admin/api/2024-01/orders/count.json?status=any" \
-H "X-Shopify-Access-Token: {access_token}"
```

```js !!request Node.js
// Session is built by the OAuth process
await shopify.rest.Order.count({
  session: session,
  status: "any",
})
```

```json !response Response
{
  "order": {
    "id": 450789469,
    "email": ""
  }
}
```

### !!parameters api_version

!type string
!required

### !!parameters order_id

!type string
!required

### !!examples Add a metafield to an order

### !!examples Add a note to an order

### !!examples Change the email of an order

## !!endpoints Delete an order

!method DEL
!path /admin/api/2024-01/orders/450789469.json

Deletes an order. Orders that interact with an online gateway can't be deleted.

```bash !!request cURL
curl -X GET "https://your-development-store.myshopify.com/admin/api/2024-01/orders/count.json?status=any" \
-H "X-Shopify-Access-Token: {access_token}"
```

```js !!request Node.js
// Session is built by the OAuth process
await shopify.rest.Order.count({
  session: session,
  status: "any",
})
```

```json !response Response
{
  "order": {
    "id": 450789469,
    "email": ""
  }
}
```

### !!parameters api_version

!type string
!required

### !!parameters order_id

!type string
!required

### !!examples Delete an order
